# Boston Data set
The Boston Housing Dataset A Dataset derived from information collected by the U.S. Census Service concerning housing in the area of Boston Mass. BackUpDelve  U of T --------------------------------------------------------------------  This dataset contains information collected by the U.S Census Service concerning housing in the area of Boston Mass. It was obtained from the StatLib archive (http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/datasets/boston), and has been used extensively throughout the literature to benchmark algorithms. However, these comparisons were primarily done outside of Delve and are thus somewhat suspect. The dataset is small in size with only 506 cases.  The data was originally published by Harrison, D. and Rubinfeld, D.L. `Hedonic prices and the demand for clean air', J. Environ. Economics &amp; Management, vol.5, 81-102, 1978.  Dataset Naming The name for this dataset is simply boston. It has two prototasks: nox, in which the nitrous oxide level is to be predicted; and price, in which the median value of a home is to be predicted  Miscellaneous Details -Origin The origin of the boston housing data is Natural. -Usage This dataset may be used for Assessment. -Number of Cases The dataset contains a total of 506 cases. -Order The order of the cases is mysterious. -Variables There are 14 attributes in each case of the dataset. They are: CRIM - per capita crime rate by town ZN - proportion of residential land zoned for lots over 25,000 sq.ft. INDUS - proportion of non-retail business acres per town. CHAS - Charles River dummy variable (1 if tract bounds river; 0 otherwise) NOX - nitric oxides concentration (parts per 10 million) RM - average number of rooms per dwelling AGE - proportion of owner-occupied units built prior to 1940 DIS - weighted distances to five Boston employment centres RAD - index of accessibility to radial highways TAX - full-value property-tax rate per $10,000 PTRATIO - pupil-teacher ratio by town B - 1000(Bk - 0.63)^2 where Bk is the proportion of blacks by town LSTAT - % lower status of the population MEDV - Median value of owner-occupied homes in $1000's -Note Variable #14 seems to be censored at 50.00 (corresponding to a median price of $50,000); Censoring is suggested by the fact that the highest median price of exactly $50,000 is reported in 16 cases, while 15 cases have prices between $40,000 and $50,000, with prices rounded to the nearest hundred. Harrison and Rubinfeld do not mention any censoring.

## Boston
Boston (US: /ˈbɔːstən/, UK: /ˈbɒstən/)[10] is the capital and most populous city[3] of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in the United States, and the 21st most populous city in the United States. The city proper covers 49 square miles (127 km2) with an estimated population of 692,600 in 2019,[4] also making it the most populous city in New England,[3] and is the seat of Suffolk County (although the county government was disbanded on July 1, 1999).[11] The city is the economic and cultural anchor of a substantially larger metropolitan area known as Greater Boston, a metropolitan statistical area (MSA) home to a census-estimated 4.8 million people in 2016 and ranking as the tenth-largest MSA in the country.[12] As a combined statistical area (CSA), this wider commuting region is home to some 8.2 million people, making it the sixth most populous in the United States.[13]

Boston is one of the oldest municipalities in the United States, founded on the Shawmut Peninsula in 1630 by Puritan settlers from the English town of the same name.[14][15] It was the scene of several key events of the American Revolution, such as the Boston massacre, the Boston Tea Party, the Battle of Bunker Hill, and the Siege of Boston. Upon American independence from Great Britain, the city continued to be an important port and manufacturing hub as well as a center for education and culture.[16][17] The city has expanded beyond the original peninsula through land reclamation and municipal annexation. Its rich history attracts many tourists, with Faneuil Hall alone drawing more than 20 million visitors per year.[18] Boston's many firsts include the United States' first public park (Boston Common, 1634), first public or state school (Boston Latin School, 1635)[19] and first subway system (Tremont Street subway, 1897).[20]

Today, Boston is a thriving center of scientific research. The Boston area's many colleges and universities make it a world leader in higher education,[21] including law, medicine, engineering, and business, and the city is considered to be a global pioneer in innovation and entrepreneurship, with nearly 5,000 startups.[22][23][24] Boston's economic base also includes finance,[25] professional and business services, biotechnology, information technology, and government activities.[26] Households in the city claim the highest average rate of philanthropy in the United States;[27] businesses and institutions rank among the top in the country for environmental sustainability and investment.[28] The city has one of the highest costs of living in the United States[29][30] as it has undergone gentrification,[31] though it remains high on world livability rankings.[32]
Colonial
Boston's early European settlers had first called the area Trimountaine (after its "three mountains", only traces of which remain today) but later renamed it Boston after Boston, Lincolnshire, England, the origin of several prominent colonists. The renaming on September 7, 1630 (Old Style),[33][b] was by Puritan colonists from England[15][34] who had moved over from Charlestown earlier that year in quest for fresh water. Their settlement was initially limited to the Shawmut Peninsula, at that time surrounded by the Massachusetts Bay and Charles River and connected to the mainland by a narrow isthmus. The peninsula is thought to have been inhabited as early as 4000 BC.[35]

In 1629, the Massachusetts Bay Colony's first governor John Winthrop led the signing of the Cambridge Agreement, a key founding document of the city. Puritan ethics and their focus on education influenced its early history;[36] America's first public school, Boston Latin School, was founded in Boston in 1635.[19]

John Hull and the pine tree shilling played a central role in the establishment of the Massachusetts Bay Colony and the Old South Church in the 1600s. In 1652 the Massachusetts legislature authorized John Hull to produce coinage . "The Hull Mint produced several denominations of silver coinage, including the pine tree shilling, for over 30 years until the political and economic situation made operating the mint no longer practical." King Charles II for reasons which were mostly political deemed the "Hull Mint" high treason which had a punishment of being hung, drawn and quartered. "On April 6, 1681, Edward Randolph petitioned the king, informing him the colony was still pressing their own coins which he saw as high treason and believed it was enough to void the charter. He asked that a writ of Quo warranto (a legal action requiring the defendant to show what authority they have for exercising some right, power, or franchise they claim to hold) be issued against Massachusetts for the violations."[37]

Boston was the largest town in the Thirteen Colonies until Philadelphia grew larger in the mid-18th century.[38] Boston's oceanfront location made it a lively port, and the city primarily engaged in shipping and fishing during its colonial days. However, Boston stagnated in the decades prior to the Revolution. By the mid-18th century, New York City and Philadelphia surpassed Boston in wealth. During this period, Boston encountered financial difficulties even as other cities in New England grew rapidly.[39][40]
